Welcome back.
Let's do a quick little video on some of the things that you want to watch out for with functions.
The one thing is you want to be careful of initializing functions inside of loops.
For example if I had a loop here let's say for let I equals zero and we'll say that I as long as it's
less than five we will increment i.
And in here if I had a function a that gets initialized well every time we loop over here.
So when I equals zero we're going to initialize the function a and then perhaps we run the function.
And then when I becomes one.
Once again we initialize the function added to memory and then invoke the function.
So on and so forth until I becomes five.
You want to be careful here because instead of initializing the function in a loop five times like we
do here We instead should be moving this up top so that we initialize the function just once and then
when we loop over it we're just executing at five times instead of initializing it and executing it.
So that's something that is often overlooked and you want to be careful of another thing that you want
to be careful with is something like let's say we had a function that returns some parameter.
And if I run this I get undefined because I haven't called it yet.
So let's call that if I run this I get a reference error param is not defined.
I looked at my variable environment.
Hey do I have param.
No don't have it.
Keep looking up the scope chain.
So I go up to the global variables and I ask is parameter.
No don't have it.
And as soon as we have nothing in our variable environment and nothing up our scope chain we get a reference
error.
This often causes a lot of functions to fail and involves us always doing some sort of a check to see
hey does param exist or is it a number or is it a certain type.
Now we could in here add a parameter and if I run this I won't get that error because when we add a
parameter to a function it adds it automatically to our variable environment as if we just declare it
that variable.
But when we call it with nothing.
Well we're gonna get undefined.
So one way you can avoid this is if you just give it a default parameter which is new.
With iOS 6.
So if I do param equals to 6 and I run this look at that I get six so it's good to have default parameters
set on a function as a way to avoid those edge cases.
Now these are just small things and there's many best practices when it comes to functions.
We're going to explore those a little bit later on in the course.
So for now I'll see you in the next video by.